>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JUNE 11: ATTORNEY
GENERAL SESSIONS TO TESTIFY
ABOUT RUSSIAN MEDDLING IN THE
2016 ELECTION.
ALSO, THE STORY OF THE ONLY BANK
CRIMINALLY PROSECUTED FOR
MORTGAGE FRAUD AFTER THE 2008
FINANCIAL CRISIS.
AND, SURVIVING THE MASS SHOOTING
IN ORLANDO'S PULSE NIGHTCLUB.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTORNEY
GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS HAS AGREED
TO TESTIFY TUESDAY BEFORE THE
SAME SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE THAT HEARD FROM FIRED
F.B.I. DIRECTOR JAMES COMEY LAST
WEEK.
IT IS UNKNOWN AT THIS TIME
WHETHER THE TESTIMONY WILL BE IN
A PUBLIC HEARING OR ONLY BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS.
EITHER WAY, DEMOCRATIC SENATE
MINORITY LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER
SAID TODAY HE HAS LOTS OF
QUESTIONS.
>> FIRST, DID HE INTERFERE WITH
THE RUSSIA INVESTIGATION BEFORE
HE RECUSED HIMSELF?
SECOND, WHAT SAFEGUARDS ARE
THERE NOW SO THAT HE DOESN'T
INTERFERE?
THIRD, IT SAYS HE WAS INVOLVED
IN THE FIRING OF COMEY, AND THE
PRESIDENT SAID COMEY WAS FIRED
BECAUSE OF RUSSIA, HOW DOES THAT
FIT IN WITH HIS RECUSAL-- IT
DOESN'T SEEM TO STAND UP WELL TO
ME?
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY, A FORMER
FEDERAL PROSECUTOR AMONG THE 46
U.S. ATTORNEYS FIRED AND NOT YET
REPLACED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP,
SAID HE BELIEVES COMEY TOLD THE
TRUTH ABOUT HIS NINE MEETINGS
AND PHONE CALLS WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP.
>> I MEAN YOU'VE GOT SOMEONE WHO
HAS A REPUTATION FOR PROBITY,
SOMEONE WHO HAS A REPUTATION FOR
TELLING THE TRUTH, SOMEONE WHO
HAS CONTEMPORANEOUS NOTES OF
WHAT HAPPENED IN THESE MEETINGS
AND IN THESE CONVERSATIONS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE WILL TELL YOU THAT THE
PRESIDENT HIMSELF SOMETIMES
MAKES ACCUSATIONS THAT TURN OUT
NOT TO BE TRUE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALSO TODAY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP CONTINUED TO
CRITICIZE COMEY FOR GIVING A
FRIEND NOTES ABOUT THEIR
CONVERSATIONS TO BE SHARED WITH
REPORTERS.
HE SAID ON TWITTER:
IN AN INTERVIEW TODAY, ONE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S PERSONAL
LAWYERS CHALLENGED COMEY'S
TESTIMONY.
>> I THINK THAT JAMES COMEY'S
CREDIBILITY HAS BEEN BROUGHT
INTO QUESTION ON MULTIPLE
OCCASIONS DURING THE CLINTON
INVESTIGATION AND HERE.
LOOK, THAT'S ULTIMATELY THE
SPECIAL COUNSEL HAS TO WEIGH
THAT AS HE MAKES-- DOES HIS
INVESTIGATION, BUT I THINK IT
RAISES SERIOUS ISSUES.
>> Sreenivasan: SOUTH CAROLINA
REPUBLICAN SENATOR LINDSEY
GRAHAM SAID TODAY THE
PRESIDENT'S BEHAVIOR IN REGARD
TO THE ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS
WAS INAPPROPRIATE, BUT DOES NOT
RISE TO OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
>> MY ADVICE TO THE PRESIDENT IS
EVERY DAY YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
JIM COMEY AND NOT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, AND THEIR NEEDS, AND
THEIR DESIRES, THEIR HOPES AND
THEIR DREAMS, YOU'RE MAKING A
MISTAKE.
>> Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DECISION NOT TO ISSUE A
PROCLAMATION FOR GAY PRIDE
MONTH, THIS MONTH, WAS ONE
COMPLAINT FOR PARTICIPANTS IN
TODAY'S "EQUALITY MARCH FOR
UNITY AND PRIDE" IN THE NATION'S
CAPITAL.
THOUSANDS WOUND THEIR WAY PAST
THE WHITE HOUSE TO HOLD A RALLY
AT THE NATIONAL MALL TO DEFEND
THE RIGHTS OF THE L.G.B.T.Q.
COMMUNITY AND FIGHT
DISCRIMINATION.
SIMILAR MARCHES WERE PLANNED IN
MORE THAN A HUNDRED CITIES
TODAY.
IN LOS ANGELES, ORGANIZERS
RENAMED THE TRADITIONAL GAY
PRIDE PARADE THE "RESIST MARCH"
AGAINST MISTER TRUMP.
THE U.S. MILITARY CARRIED OUT AN
AIR STRIKE TODAY AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC MILITANT GROUP AL
SHABAAB IN SOMALIA.
THE PENTAGON SAYS IT HIT ONE OF
SHABAAB'S TRAINING AND COMMAND
BASES 185 MILES SOUTHWEST OF
SOMALIA'S CAPITAL, MOGADISHU,
AND KILLED EIGHT MILITANTS.
IRAN SAID TODAY ITS SECURITY
FORCES HAVE ARRESTED ALMOST 50
SUSPECTS IN CONNECTION WITH LAST
WEEK'S SUICIDE BOMBINGS AT ITS
PARLIAMENT AND THE MAUSOLEUM OF
AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI, IN TEHRAN.
THIS FOLLOWS YESTERDAY'S RAID
AND KILLING OF THE ALLEGED
MASTERMIND OF THE TWIN ATTACKS.
17 PEOPLE DIED IN THE TERRORIST
ATTACKS, THE FIRST BY ISIS IN
IRAN.
QATAR IS FACING FOOD SHORTAGES
DUE TO THE ECONOMIC EMBARGO BY
ITS ARAB NEIGHBORS.
IRAN SENT ITS FIRST PLANELOADS
OF PROMISED DAILY SHIPMENTS OF
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES TODAY.
SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT, UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES, AND BAHRAIN SAY QATAR
FUNDS ISLAMIC MILITANTS.
KUWAIT TODAY OFFERED TO MEDIATE
THE CRISIS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS ALSO ACCUSED
QATAR, WHICH IS HOME TO A MAJOR
U.S. AIR BASE, OF BEING A
SPONSOR OF TERRORISM.
QATAR SAYS THE ALLEGATIONS ARE
BASED ON LIES.
IN FRANCE, EARLY RETURNS SHOWED
THE "REPUBLIC ON THE MOVE"
CENTRIST PARTY OF NEW PRESIDENT
EMMANUEL MACRON WELL AHEAD IN
TODAY'S FIRST ROUND OF
PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS, A STEP
IN CONSOLIDATING HIS AUTHORITY
TO GOVERN.
MACRON'S PARTY IS ALMOST CERTAIN
TO ADVANCE THE MOST CANDIDATES
TO NEXT WEEK'S DECISIVE, SECOND
ROUND TOWARD WINNING A MAJORITY
IN THE 577-SEAT ASSEMBLY.
PUERTO RICO WANTS TO BECOME THE
51ST STATE.
IN TODAY'S REFERENDUM, THE OTHER
TWO CHOICES WERE INDEPENDENCE OR
THE STATUS QUO.
THE ISLAND'S THREE-AND HALF-
MILLION RESIDENTS ARE ALREADY
U.S. CITIZENS.
THEY'RE STRUGGLING WITH 12%
UNEMPLOYMENT, A 45% POVERTY
RATE, AND HIGHER TAXES TO HELP
PAY DOWN ITS $72-BILLION DEBT.
CONGRESS MUST APPROVE STATEHOOD,
SOMETHING IT DID NOT DO THE LAST
TIME PUERTO RICO VOTED FOR IT,
IN 2012.
SEE PHOTOS AND READ MORE ABOUT
THE EQUALITY MARCH IN
WASHINGTON, D.C.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SPENT A GOOD
PART OF LAST WEEK TOUTING HIS
CAMPAIGN PLEDGE TO SPEND A
TRILLION DOLLARS TO REBUILD THE
NATION'S INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT OTHER THAN TALKING GENERALLY
ABOUT PUBLIC-PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS FOR THOSE
INVESTMENTS, PRIVATIZING AIR
TRAFFIC CONTROL, AND DISMANTLING
REGULATIONS THAT CAN DELAY
CONSTRUCTION, THE WHITE HOUSE
HAS YET TO PUT FORWARD A
DETAILED PLAN.
WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER MIKE
DEBONIS IS COVERING THE ISSUE
AND JOINS ME NOW FROM
WASHINGTON.
INFRASTRUCTURE TAKES A LONG TIME
TO BUILD AND A LONG TIME TO
PLAN.
WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE?
>> AS YOU MENTIONED, THEY'RE IN
THE PIPELINE FOR YEARS AND SOME
CASES A DECADE OR MORE.
AND WHAT'S AT STAKE IS A
CERTAINTY ABOUT A PATH FORWARD
AND THE LONGER THERE IS
UNCERTAINTY, THE HARDER IT IS TO
PLAN THESE PROJECTS, AND WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN A LOT OF CASES IS
THAT THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION IS
CREATED MORE UNCERTAINTY
PARTICULARLY SEEN THIS IN THE
REALM OF PUBLIC TRANSIT BUT
THERE'S ALSO PORT PROJECTS,
THINGS LIKE THAT, WHERE THEY
MADE MOVES PARTICULARLY IN THE
BUDGET THAT HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
SCRATCHING THEIR HEADS.
>> GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE OF THE
CITY AND THE MUNICIPALITY
THINKING ABOUT BUILDING
SOMETHING, WAITING FOR FUNDS.
>> TRANSIT PROJECTS, THERE'S A
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PROGRAM THAT TYPICALLY SPENDS
FOUR, FIVE BILLION DOLLARS A
YEAR BUILDING TRANSIT PROJECTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THESE AREN'T JUST BIG CITIES.
A LOT OF THESE ARE IN RED
STATES, ARIZONA, INDIANA,
NORTH CAROLINA.
THEY'VE BEEN IN THE PROCESS OVER
A COURSE OF MONTHS AND YEARS
EXPECTING TO GET A FEDERAL
CONTRIBUTION OF THOSE PROJECTS.
THE BUDGET RELEASED PROPOSES
ZEROING OUT ONE OF THESE TRANSIT
ACCOUNTS WOULD HALT SOME OF
PROJECTS IN THEIR TRACKS, AT THE
LEAST WOULD FORCE LOCALITIES TO
COME UP WITH TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS.
>> WHAT'S THE LIKELIHOOD OF
SOMETHING LIKE THIS, A PLAN IS
PUT FORTH AND GETS THROUGH
CONGRESS, BECAUSE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS ARE PROUD ABOUT WHAT
SORT OF DOLLARS THEY CAN GET
IN THEIR COMMUNITIES, OFTENTIMES
STATES ARE THE ONES THAT OWN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE ON THE
GROUND.
>> CONGRESS SPENDS THE MONEY,
AND THERE IS BUY IN, BY AND
LARGE AMONG LOCAL
REPRESENTATIVES, IN PLACES WHERE
THESE PROJECTS ARE HAPPENING.
THAT SAID YOU HAVE A, YOU KNOW,
MAJOR FACTION OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY THAT WANTS TO REDUCE
DISCRETIONARY NON-DEFENSE
SPENDING TO LOW LEVELS AND
POLITICALLY AND FOR MANY OF THEM
ON PRINCIPLE, IT'S A GOOD PLACE
TO FIND CUTS.
POLITICALLY THESE ARE, YOU
KNOW, BY AND LARGE THEIRS THE
PERCEPTION THESE ARE PROJECTS
THAT ARE GOING TO BENEFIT
DEMOCRATS, THEY'RE TYPICALLY
EVEN WHEN THEY'RE IN RED
STATES, THEY'RE IN DEMOCRATIC
POCKETS AND BIG CITIES.
POLICY-WISE, THERE'S A FEELING
AMONG DEFICIT HAWKS IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, BUT SIMPLY
SPEAKING, PROJECTS LIKE THIS
SHOULD BE FUNDED LOCALLY, THAT
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULDN'T
HAVE A ROLE AND THESE ARE NOT
PROJECTS OF NATIONAL IMPORT.
YOU'RE RIGHT TO SAY ULTIMATELY
CONGRESS WILL HAVE THE SAY AND
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO ZERO OUT
THE PROJECTS ENTIRELY BUT THERE
WILL BE A HUGE AMOUNTS OF
PRESSURE ON PROJECTS LIKE THIS
TO SORT OF BE ON THE CHOPPING
BLOCK.
>> "WASHINGTON POST" MIKE
DEBONIS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.
>> Sreenivasan: A NEW
DOCUMENTARY CALLED "ABACUS:
SMALL ENOUGH TO JAIL" IS NOW
PLAYING IN SELECT THEATERS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND WILL
PREMIERE ON THE PBS PROGRAM
"FRONTLINE" IN SEPTEMBER.
THE FILM TELLS THE STORY OF A
FAMILY-OWNED BANK SERVING THE
CHINESE-AMERICAN COMMUNITY IN
NEW YORK CITY.
FOLLOWING THE 2008 FINANCIAL
CRISIS, IT WAS THE ONLY AMERICAN
BANK TO FACE CRIMINAL CHARGES
FOR ITS LOAN PRACTICES.
"NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND'S SASKIA DE
MELKER INTERVIEWED THE FILM'S
DIRECTOR ABOUT THE CASE AND HOW
THE FAMILY FOUGHT BACK.
>> Reporter: THE DOCUMENTARY"
ABACUS: SMALL ENOUGH TO JAIL"
TELLS THE STORY OF ABACUS
FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK, A SMALL
FAMILY-RUN BANK IN NEW YORK
CITY'S CHINATOWN.
IN THE WAKE OF THE 2008
FINANCIAL CRISIS, ABACUS BECAME
THE ONLY AMERICAN BANK TO FACE
CRIMINAL CHARGES FOR MORTGAGE
FRAUD.
FILMMAKER STEVE JAMES FOLLOWED
THE ABACUS CASE WHEN IT WENT TO
TRIAL.
HE'S BEST KNOWN FOR HIS GRITTY
CHICAGO DOCUMENTARIES INCLUDING"
HOOP DREAMS" AND "THE
INTERRUPTERS," AND "LIFE
ITSELF," ABOUT FILM CRITIC ROGER
EBERT.
IN THE CONTEXT OF THE MORTGAGE
CRISIS AND ALL THE BANKS THAT
WERE INVOLVED IN THAT CRISIS,
WHY DID YOU WANT TO TELL THIS
PARTICULAR STORY ABOUT THIS
BANK?
>> I THINK TO SOME EXTENT WE
WANTED TO TELL THIS STORY,
BECAUSE IT WASN'T REALLY BEING
TOLD AT ALL, UNLESS YOU READ THE
CHINESE-AMERICAN PRESS IN NEW
YORK CITY.
THEY ARE IN EVERY RESPECT SORT
OF THE MIRROR OPPOSITE OF THE
BIG BANKS IN 2008.
THEY WERE THE 2,651ST LARGEST
BANK IN THE UNITED STATES.
I THINK BECAUSE THEY WERE A
SMALL BANK THAT IT WASN'T
CONSIDERED IMPORTANT.
AND FOR ME, THAT MAKES IT HIGHLY
IMPORTANT TO TELL THE STORY.
>> Reporter: AT THE HEART OF THE
FILM IS BANK FOUNDER THOMAS SUNG
AND HIS TWO DAUGHTERS, VERA AND
JILL, WHO RAN ABACUS WITH HIM.
THE CASE AGAINST ABACUS BEGAN
AFTER THE SUNG FAMILY DISCOVERED
SOME LOAN OFFICERS HAD ALTERED
MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS TO
FRAUDULENTLY QUALIFY SOME
BORROWERS.
THE SUNG FAMILY ITSELF ALERTED
FINANCIAL REGULATORS.
>> THEY DISCOVERED THE FRAUD
THAT WAS GOING ON AMONG SOME
LOAN OFFICERS AND TOOK ACTION
IMMEDIATELY TO TRY TO ROOT IT
OUT.
INITIATED THEIR OWN INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION AND GOT RID OF
SOME MORE EMPLOYEES.
AND THEN WERE FULLY COOPERATING
WITH THE D.A.'S OFFICE BECAUSE
THEY THOUGHT THE D.A.'S OFFICE
WAS GOING TO ACTUALLY HELP THEM
TO ROOT OUT ANY ADDITIONAL FRAUD
THAT MIGHT BE GOING ON.
AND SO FOR THEM TO THEN TURN
AROUND AND BE INDICTED AND BE
ACCUSED OF ENDORSING AND MAYBE
EVEN DIRECTING THE FRAUD AT THE
HIGHEST LEVELS OF THE BANK WAS
JUST ASTOUNDING TO THEM.
BUT I MADE IT VERY CLEAR TO THE
SUNGS, IF WE'RE DOING THIS FILM,
WE'RE DOING THIS FILM, AND WE
WILL MAKE EVERY EFFORT TO
PRESENT THE CASE THAT'S AGAINST
YOU.
>> Reporter: THE FILM INTERVIEWS
SEVERAL JURORS FROM THE BANK'S
TRIAL AND LAYS OUT THE
PROSECUTION'S CASE AGAINST
ABACUS AND 19 FORMER EMPLOYEES.
>> IN ABACUS'S LOAN DEPARTMENT
MORTGAGES WERE BASED UPON FALSE
DOCUMENTATION.
WE HAVE EVIDENCE OF CONSPIRACY,
LARCENY, AND SYSTEMIC FRAUD.
>> Reporter: MANHATTAN DISTRICT
ATTORNEY CYRUS VANCE JR, DID NOT
GIVE THE SUNG FAMILY THE OPTION
TO REACH A CIVIL SETTLEMENT AND
JUST PAY A FINE, THE TYPE OF
DEAL OFFERED TO BIG BANKS WHO
SOLD TOXIC HOME LOAN PORTFOLIOS
TO INVESTORS.
>> I THINK EVERY AMERICAN WAS
UPSET AT THE CRISIS THAT WE WENT
THROUGH. THERE WAS BEHAVIOR THAT
WAS LESS THAN ETHICAL, AND I
THINK AMERICANS WERE UPSET THAT
THE SECURITY AGAINST WHICH LOANS
WERE MADE WERE OFTEN FICTITIOUS.
AND AT ABACUS THERE WAS SOME
TRUTH TO THAT, TOO.
IT'S CLEARLY NOT A BIG BANK, AND
CLEARLY IT'S NOT REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE ENTIRE FINANCIAL
COMMUNITY, BUT I THINK THE
PRINCIPLE WAS THE SAME.
>> Reporter: VANCE PROSECUTED
ABACUS EVEN THOUGH IT HAD ONE OF
THE LOWEST DEFAULT RATES IN THE
COUNTRY.
ONLY NINE OF THREE-THOUSAND
LOANS ABACUS GRANTED WERE NOT
PAID BACK DURING THE FIVE-YEAR
PERIOD COVERED BY THE FILM.
>> CYRUS VANCE JUST FELT THIS IS
EASIER TO ATTACK, ESPECIALLY
IT'S A FAMILY BANK.
BUT HE DOESN'T REALIZE THAT TOM
IS NOT EASY TO BE PUSHED AROUND.
AND MY GIRLS, THEY'RE TOUGH,
SMART CAPABLE WOMEN.
SO COURAGEOUS.
>> Reporter: CENTRAL TO THE FILM
IS THE CITY'S CHINESE-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY THAT WAS THE BANK'S
CUSTOMER BASE.
AS JILL SUNG EXPLAINS.
>> WE SERVE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
NEVER EVEN DEALT WITH THE
BANKING SYSTEM BEFORE AND YOU
TRY TO BRING THEM INTO THE
BANKING SYSTEM.
AN EXAMPLE OF THAT IS THE SAFE
DEPOSIT BOXES.
>> THERE ARE 8,000 PLUS BOXES IN
THIS VAULT.
8,000.
THE CHINESE PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY
THE IMMIGRANTS, THEY RENT HOUSES
IN VERY TIGHT QUARTERS, WITH NO
PLACE FOR THEM TO PUT THEIR
VALUABLES EXCEPT IN A BANK
VAULT.
>> ABACUS BANK SERVES MAINLY THE
CHINESE COMMUNITY IN NEW YORK
CITY, LARGELY FIRST-AND SECOND-
GENERATION IMMIGRANTS.
HOW CRITICAL WAS THAT TO THIS
STORY THAT YOU TELL ABOUT THEIR
INDICTMENT?
>> I THINK THAT WAS KEY.
THERE WAS A KIND OF PROFOUND
INSENSITIVITY TO THE WAYS IN
WHICH BANKING HAPPENS IN
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES, NOT JUST
CHINESE-AMERICAN, BUT EVEN
HISTORICALLY, ARE USUALLY LIVING
IN A CASH ECONOMY, ESPECIALLY IN
THOSE EARLY GENERATIONS.
THIS IS THE REALITY OF LIFE IN
AMERICA FOR THESE COMMUNITIES.
AND IN ORDER FOR THEM TO CLIMB
THEIR WAY UP THE LADDER, SO TO
SPEAK, AND GET MORTGAGES AND
START BUSINESSES, IT'S DONE
DIFFERENTLY.
AND THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT ABACUS UNDERSTOOD AS A
BANKING INSTITUTION.
>> Reporter: THE SUNG FAMILY
SPENT $10-MILLION DOLLARS ON ITS
DEFENSE.
THE FILM SHOWS NOT ONLY THE
LEGAL STRUGGLE BUT ALSO THE
PERSONAL TOLL OF GOING TO TRIAL.
>> THEY MADE A DECISION THAT
THEY WERE NOT GOING TO PLEAD
GUILTY TO SOMETHING, THAT THEY
DID NOT FEEL THE BANK WAS NOT
GUILTY OF.
THAT IS A COURAGEOUS CHOICE AND
IT'S AN EXPENSIVE CHOICE.
IT IS A DAUNTING TASK TO FIGHT
THE GOVERNMENT.
>> IF THEY'RE FOUND GUILTY, IT
SURELY WOULD HAVE BEEN THE END
OF THE BANK.
PERSONALLY THOUGH, THE STAKES
WERE EVEN, I THINK, HIGHER FOR
THE FAMILY-- THIS BANK REALLY
REPRESENTED THEM.
IT WAS THEIR LEGACY.
WE ARE WITH THE SUNGS DURING
THIS ORDEAL.
AND YOU GET AN UP-CLOSE AND VERY
PERSONAL LOOK AT THE STRESS AND
STRAIN AND THE CLOSENESS AND THE
BICKERING THAT GOES ON AS THEY
FACE THIS.
THE SUNGS ARE JUST THIS SORT OF
WONDERFULLY CLOSE AND VERY FUNNY
FAMILY IN A LOT OF WAYS.
AND THEY NEVER KIND OF LOST
THEIR SENSE OF HUMOR EVEN AT
TIMES IN THE MIDST OF THIS.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU HOPE
THAT PEOPLE TAKE AWAY FROM THIS
FILM?
>> I THINK IT'S A FILM ABOUT A
COMMUNITY THAT IS NOT KNOWN TO
STAND UP FOR THEMSELVES IN THIS
COUNTRY.
THAT HISTORICALLY, PERHAPS
BECAUSE OF HAVING COME FROM
MAINLAND CHINA AND MORE OF A
POLICE STATE, THEY HAVE DONE
EVERYTHING THEY CAN TO AVOID ANY
SCRUTINY OR ANY INVOLVEMENT OR
ENGAGEMENT WITH THE POWERS THAT
BE.
AND THIS IS A CASE WHERE THIS
FAMILY SAID, "NO, WE ARE GOING
TO FIGHT BACK."
FOR THEIR COMMUNITY AND THEIR
BANK THAT IS A PILLAR WITHIN
THAT COMMUNITY.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW MARKS
ONE YEAR SINCE THE MOST LETHAL
MASS SHOOTING OF CIVILIANS IN
AMERICAN HISTORY: THE KILLING OF
49 PEOPLE AND WOUNDING OF 68
OTHERS AT "PULSE," A POPULAR GAY
NIGHTCLUB IN ORLANDO, FLORIDA.
TONIGHT, "NEWSHOUR" WEEKEND'S
IVETTE FELICIANO INTRODUCES US
TO ONE OF THE SURVIVORS OF THE
ATTACK WHO TALKS ABOUT HER
HARROWING EXPERIENCE INSIDE THE
CLUB AND HOW SHE HAS RECOVERED.
A WARNING; SOME ELEMENTS OF THIS
STORY MAY BE DISTURBING TO
VIEWERS.
>> Reporter: ON VACATION IN
ORLANDO LAST JUNE 12TH, 20-YEAR-
OLD PATIENCE CARTER, ON THE
LEFT, HER FRIEND TIARA PARKER,
AND PARKER'S COUSIN, AKYRA
MURRAY, DECIDED TO GO OUT TO THE
PULSE NIGHT CLUB.
>> IT WAS SO MUCH FUN, AND WE
WERE TALKING TO EACH OTHER
THROUGHOUT THAT NIGHT, LIKE WE
ARE DEFINITELY COMING BACK HERE,
THIS IS A SPOT FOR VACATION.
WE WERE SO SET ON COMING BACK
AGAIN, AND THEN THE GUNSHOTS
STARTED.
>> Reporter: SHORTLY AFTER 2:00
A.M., OMAR MATEEN ENTERED THE
CLUB ARMED WITH A SEMI-AUTOMATIC
RIFLE AND A HANDGUN AND BEGAN
FIRING.
>> WE DIDN'T KNOW IF IT WAS
GUNSHOTS, WE DIDN'T KNOW IF IT
WAS PART OF THE MUSIC.
ALL WE WERE DOING WAS FEELING
THE REACTIONS OF OTHER PEOPLE.
AND EVERYBODY WAS CHAOTIC.
AND AT THIS POINT, PEOPLE ARE
JUST KIND OF JUST RUNNING BACK
AND FORTH, NOT REALLY KNOWING
WHAT TO DO.
I DROPPED TO THE FLOOR BECAUSE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO.
>> Reporter: CARTER, PARKER, AND
MURRAY ENDED UP HIDING TOGETHER
IN THE CLUB'S BATHROOM.
WITHIN MINUTES MATEEN WOULD
FOLLOW.
>> WE WERE THE LAST FEW TO GET
INTO THE BATHROOM STALL THAT WE
WERE IN.
AND THERE WAS ALREADY ABOUT
MAYBE, WHAT, 17-20 PEOPLE IN
THAT STALL ALREADY.
SO WE CLOSED THE DOOR, AND THEN
WE JUST SAT DOWN ON THE FLOOR.
SO YOU COULD STILL HEAR PEOPLE
SCREAMING IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
CLUB.
AND THEN THERE WAS A PERIOD OF
SILENCE.
HE WALKS IN, YOU COULD HEAR HIS
FOOTSTEPS, AND THEN HE STARTS
SHOOTING INTO OUR BATHROOM.
WHEN HIS GUN GOT JAMMED, THAT'S
WHEN THE SHOOTING STOPPED.
>> Reporter: CARTER HAD BEEN
SHOT IN BOTH LEGS.
SHE LAID ON THE BATHROOM AND
TRIED TO STAY QUIET.
AT 2:35 A.M., SHE HEARD MATEEN
CALL THE POLICE AND PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO ISIS.
>> THAT'S WHEN IT KIND OF
CONFIRMED FOR ME THAT WE WEREN'T
GOING TO GET OUT OF HERE,
BECAUSE HE HAD A MOTIVE, HE WAS
THERE FOR A REASON, AND HE WAS
TRYING TO PROVE SOMETHING.
SO AT THAT POINT I PRETTY MUCH
JUST GAVE UP.
>> Reporter: YOU THOUGHT YOU
WERE NEVER GOING TO GET OUT OF
THERE?
>> I ABSOLUTELY THOUGHT I WAS
NEVER GOING TO GET OUT.
HONESTLY, YEAH.
I LOST HOPE VERY, VERY QUICKLY.
SO I JUST STARTED MAKING PEACE
WITH GOD.
>> Reporter: TWO-AND-A-HALF
HOURS LATER, POLICE PLOWED
THROUGH THE BATHROOM WALL IN AN
ARMORED VEHICLE.
RIGHT BEFORE THAT, CARTER SAYS,
MATEEN CAME INTO THE BATHROOM
STALL WHERE SHE WAS HIDING.
>> HE HAS HIS HANDGUN IN HIS
HAND.
AT THIS POINT, MY FACE IS
TURNING TO THE OTHER STALL,
BECAUSE I REALLY JUST DIDN'T
WANT TO GET SHOT IN THE FACE.
AND I HEARD HIM SAY "HEY, YOU."
HE SHOT SOMEONE.
HE SHOT ANOTHER PERSON.
AND THEN RIGHT BEFORE THE POLICE
CAME IN, HE SHOT THE PERSON THAT
WAS DIRECTLY BEHIND ME.
THAT'S WHEN THE WALL CAME DOWN,
SO THE POLICE CAME THROUGH THE
WALL.
ALL THE DEBRIS WAS PRETTY MUCH
ALL OVER MY FACE, BUT I COULD
SEE THROUGH THIS ONE PEEPHOLE
THROUGHOUT ALL THE DEBRIS, I SAW
THE LIGHTS, JUST THE SPARKS FROM
THEM EXCHANGING GUNFIRE WITH ONE
ANOTHER.
AND THEN THERE WAS SILENCE.
>> Reporter: CARTER SPENT SIX
DAYS IN AN ORLANDO HOSPITAL
UNDERGOING SURGERY ON HER LEGS.
HER FRIEND TIARA PARKER, SHOT IN
THE STOMACH, SURVIVED.
PARKER'S COUSIN, AKYRA MURRAY,
DID NOT.
CARTER RETURNED TO NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY AND HAS JUST
COMPLETED HER JUNIOR YEAR.
SHE'S LARGELY RECOVERED FROM HER
PHYSICAL INJURIES, BUT NOT HER
EMOTIONAL SCARS.
>> AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS
SCHOOL YEAR, I WAS LIMPING TO
CLASS.
I WAS LITERALLY DOING THIS AND
GETTING TO CLASS.
AND NOW I'M JUST WALKING
STRAIGHT BY THE END OF THIS
SCHOOL YEAR.
EMOTIONALLY, I THINK, IT'S LIKE
EVERY DAY IS A DIFFERENT KIND OF
STRUGGLE.
SOME DAYS I'M REALLY UP, AND I'M
SO HAPPY, LIFE IS GREAT, I'M
EXCITED ABOUT THIS THING THAT
HAPPENED, THIS THING THAT
HAPPENED.
AND THEN SOME DAYS I JUST FIND
MYSELF FALLING INTO THIS DARK
PLACE THAT I DON'T WANT TO GO
BACK TO.
I WAS IN A REALLY DARK PLACE IN
THE HOSPITAL, AND SOMETIMES I
FEEL MYSELF GOING BACK THERE.
>> Reporter: CARTER IS WRITING A
BOOK ABOUT SURVIVING THE PULSE
NIGHTCLUB ATTACK.
NEWS OF OTHER TERRORIST ATTACKS,
LIKE THE ONE AFTER A POP CONCERT
IN MANCHESTER, ENGLAND, LAST
MONTH, HITS HER PARTICULARLY
HARD.
>> WE'RE ALL, YOU KNOW, AT RISK
OF BEING, JUST LIKE, HAVING OUR
LIVES DEVASTATED AT SOME POINT.
SO I JUST REALLY HOPE WE DON'T
FORGET ABOUT THE PEOPLE AND THE
FAMILIES THAT ARE BEING AFFECTED
BY THESE SITUATIONS THAT HAPPEN.
BECAUSE THEY'RE REAL PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, SPANISH
TENNIS STAR RAFAEL NADAL WON THE
FRENCH OPEN MEN'S SINGLES TITLE
TODAY FOR A RECORD TENTH TIME,
NADAL EASILY BEAT ONE-TIME
FRENCH OPEN CHAMPION STAN
WAWRINKA OF SWITZERLAND IN
STRAIGHT SETS.
WITH THIS, HIS 15TH GRAND SLAM,
NADAL PASSES AMERICAN PETE
SAMPRAS ON THE ALL-TIME WIN
LIST, AND IS ONLY THREE BEHIND
HIS LONGTIME RIVAL, ROGER
FEDERER.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF"
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT.